She told me you had a bear sighting!
Oh my god!
Little finger!
Bear!
No, he said bye.
Bye!
He said bye.
That's great!
I was on the wall.
She did not want to see me.
She wanted to see the bear.
She just kept asking for the bear.
Wow!
They were climbing the trees.
He's like, wow!
That's so amazing.
That's awesome.
What a cool experience.
I saw one mama bear and two baby bears.
It makes me really happy because I see them every day.
Which is kind of scary when we're... Sure, yeah.
Yesterday morning, my mom and dad took on it and it needed a little return.
That's so cool.
I'm not crazy.
I mean like Lincoln right here.
It was on the side side of button
This one?
Should I turn it off?
I might have turned it off.
So I guess the blinker that means it's on then, right?
And then click the record button.
OK.
You're in.
So we're good then.
It wasn't on.
So why is yours doing?
Because this might not have as much battery.
No, his was on.
So welcome back y'all to this other side of the valley.
So the West Crown Trail yesterday we had the chance to explore up towards the cemetery.
We're going to end at the cemetery today where we'll do a little loop on our hike.
And during our little hike we are going to have the chance to put on our learner hat one more time and practice a strategy and activity that we love here.
that also we've heard from a lot of educators is really applicable across grade levels and content areas.
We've heard lots of creative ways that this is being used.
It's an activity called Each To Teach To.
And this morning I was really thinking about Each To Teach To when John read the quote at breakfast by Rachel Carson, where she talks about how knowing is not half as important as loving.
And each to teach you gives us the space to really love and connect with this place or the place where you find yourself in.
and it gives you that chance to connect and maybe in a little bit new or different way.
Yesterday we connected with salamanders and salamanders are so cute and they have the littlest tiniest toes and something full of black toe pads and like it's like love at first sight with a salamander.
But when you're in the woods or you're in your neighborhood or you're in a park we might not connect with everything as quickly or as deeply as the face or the toes of a salamander.
But each teacher gives us a lens to start to think about that connection, to see our place in maybe a little bit different way.
And oftentimes when we are doing science, we think about the so what.
We're just the welcome home committee.
Can you tell it's a group of teachers?
Woohoo!
Teachers!
Spirit Fingers, part two.
She said she's a retired teacher!
I don't think when I, during the time I was here.
What did you teach?
First, third, fourth, seventh,
All of the above.
All of the above, yeah.
Mostly science stuff here.
Mostly science stuff.
Science, STEM.
I went to middle school and high school.
Yep.
There is no pension.
All right.
Woo!
She set this up!
More teachers!
So oftentimes this week we are really focused on data collection, thinking about this probabilistic thinking and revising our thinking, collecting more data, adding to the story.
And oftentimes we wait till the end of that process to think about the so what behind it.
So what, why are we even studying this?
But making these connections helps us put that so what at the beginning to help frame and connect us to the work throughout the process instead of just at the end.
So here's how each two teach to is going to work.
In just a minute we will all together as a group hike up to that junction where yesterday we veered off to the right up to the cemetery.
The whole group is going to stay put at that spot and I as a lonesome hiker is going to head up the trail for a little bit.
And as I am hiking, I'm going to be looking for something cool.
It could be a species, it could be a medicinal plant, it could be connecting with the sounds around us, it could be artistic.
Something that stands out to me in the trail in that space.
And after about two-ish minutes, Grayson is going to send the first two people up the trail.
And those first partners, their job is to hike until you find me.
When you find me, I am going to teach you about whatever thing I stopped to look at or connect with, and then that becomes your station.
So then you and your partners stay put there, and you will then teach the subsequent partners whatever that thing was as they come through.
You are all teachers, so whatever I teach you is one way to say it, but you might have a way to add to it, to give it a little flair, add a little creativity.
So the way that you deliver and share that thing is up to you and your partner.
So after about two more minutes Grayson will send the next pair.
That pair will hike up the trail until they find the first pair.
They will stop at that first pair and learn whatever the fact is from that pair.
That first pair will stay put.
The second pair keeps hiking until they find them.
and then I will teach them something at that spot.
That will become their station.
They make it their own.
Think about how they want to share it.
They stay put.
I keep hiking.
Two minutes later Grayson sends the third pair.
That third pair stops at the first pair and learns.
Stops the second pair and learns.
Keeps hiking until they find me.
I will teach them something or have them do some kind of activity.
That becomes their series.
So we are all zipped, unzipped along the trail.
Grayson's going to be last.
So once everybody has their station, she will come to you and you can teach her your thing.
When you see Grayson, you know at Jatston.
After you teach her.
And then she's going to kind of stay put and you will make your way through the stations ahead of you.
You are then the participant.
She will then come to the next station.
They will teach her.
Then they will keep walking.
The next one, they will keep walking until we all zip back up into one group at the end where another junction is.
What questions do we have about each two teach two?
If it doesn't make sense yet, that's fine.
It'll be very clear what you need to do one step at a time.
It looks like a gallery wall.
Similar to a gallery wall?
Yep.
All right.
So as I said in my instructions and as the name implies, you do need a partner for this activity.
So if you'll take a moment, find one other person to work with and appear.
Yeah, I wear evidence.
Perfect.
He's an influencer.
That's right.
We're going to be famous.
Hopefully for good things.
One way or another.
Two by two.
Now we go now and then.
Then at a certain point we'll stop and then she'll go up and then start.
This is that part of teaching where everybody, you've given all the instructions and you thought it out really carefully.
Somebody says, what are we doing?
Oh, you remember those days, don't you?
Just a little bit.
I visited your school last month.
Did you?
Yeah, for the reunion.
Oh, you had a district wide thing?
Not district wide, we had a class reunion.
Oh, which class?
It was a roaring,
20s.
We're pouring 20s.
All the 20s.
Yeah, the 2000s.
The 2003, 4, and 5.
Those classes.
All the people.
2003.
Was that your group?
It was, sadly.
I think that was my favorite.
They were my favorite.
I'm not supposed to have favorites, but y'all were it.
News to my ears.
I'm just saying that.
Alright, I'm going to start heading up the trail, and then Grayson will give the cue.
I know, I've got to... Oh, she's coming.
I understand now, okay?
I thought we were going to the cemetery first.
Oh, nope.
We'll head there.
Cemetery last is what I intend to do in general.
So who's there that I know?
We had my brother came.
He didn't come to the school part but he went to the other one to the later event.
Justin Long.
Jay Long, our head football coach.
Yes.
Isn't that so cool?
It is.
He does a great job.
I think he does.
He is.
Who else?
You got a butterfly?
Brandon Wilkerson.
Come for a beetle.
Remember Brandon?
Oh my gosh.
Terry Porter.
He didn't come.
Tonio Myer didn't come in.
Tonio.
Not Thomas Moore.
No, he works for Milwaukee Bucks.
I know.
Oh yeah, you know all these things.
I sort of lost touch with Thomas, but I have to, you know how Thomas is.
If you're not in the list,
contacts that he's currently keeping up with you have to get your information from other sources and I fell off his first I fell off his whatever tier I was on I'm now I'm now relegated to the others but when he was at Brevard he used to write me letters like handwritten letters and like I'll never I've got them all because one of them's like what am I doing